Announcing Rosa
================
Richard Bamattre

A quick announcement that Rosa was born on August 7, 2020 at 9:39 AM.

Family and friends: see our [Baby
Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/bamacchetti/) for pictures.

Now for the numbers and context.

## Her stats

First of all, her basic statistics. Everyone asks this first about
babies - how heavy and how long? It’s helpful to put these numbers in
context by looking at how Rosa compares with other Caucasian babies.

I pulled some data from [this
article](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2802014/) by
Janssen et al. in 2017, since it looks at the variation in baby weight
across ethnicities. It also gave me the numbers I needed to create a
picture of the average weight and height.

At 3.3 kilos (7 lbs 5 oz) Rosa sits comfortably around the average. If
all babies were exactly the same size, we wouldn’t have a distribution
here (the “bell curve” below). We probably wouldn’t have that many types
of sports either if humans had the same body type.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/weight-1.png)<!-- -->

Length wise, though, Rosa is somewhat above the average.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/length-1.png)<!-- -->

## What’s in a name?

Rosa was named after her great grandmother. Her name is pronounced
differently in Portuguese than how it would sound in English, mainly the
“R” sound. It’s tricky. See the pronunciation of Rosa
[here](https://www.infopedia.pt/dicionarios/lingua-portuguesa/rosa) and
a breakdown of the “R” sound [here](https://youtu.be/3jdovKE2f4I?t=366).

## How common is Rosa as a name?

In the United States in 2017, around 400 Rosas were born, which is 0.02%
of all children that year.

The big question is: What is the possibility that Rosa will be in a
class with someone with the same name? And have to go by Rosa S. and
always get confused with another kid?

It turns out the chance Rosa will be in a class with another Rosa is
about 1 in 200. Which is pretty unlikely. (Assuming classes are 20 kids
and the popularity of names in 2020 is similar to 2017).

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/common%20name-1.png)<!-- -->

Unfortunately for girls named Emma, the most popular name in 2017 (and
1% of all babies), their chances are 1 in 5.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/common%20name%202-1.png)<!-- -->

## How popular was the name Rosa over time?

Rosa is a pretty classic name, dating back to 1880, when Social Security
records were first available to track baby names over time, and before
then.

It peaked in popularity in two decades: the 1920s and 1950s. Perhaps the
influence of Rosa Luxemburg and Rosa Parks?

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/name-1.png)<!-- -->

## What kind of names are similar?

Given the popularity of Rosa over time, are there names with the similar
trend? It seems Miriam is a close contender, along with Priscilla. Jenny
(as opposed to Jennifer) had a similar trend, but peaked in the 1970s.

Thanks to [this analysis](https://rpubs.com/jalapic/babynames) for the
inspiration and the code.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/comparable%20names-1.png)<!-- -->

## How the parents are doing

Inadvertently I had my smart watch on during the birth, which captured
my heart rate over time.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/hr-1.png)<!-- -->

The smartwatch also tracks sleep, which gives a pretty accurate
portrayal of pre and post-partum sleep habits. However, the watch can
only record sleep that is longer than 3 hours per stint.

![](announcing_rosa_files/figure-gfm/sleep-1.png)<!-- -->

Welcome to the world, Rosa\! There will be lots of adventures, numbers,
and trends out there for you to explore.

Created by [Richard Bamattre](https://twitter.com/rbamattre). My partner
says I have too much time on my hands since taking paternity leave.
